# A Deep Learning Approach to Predict the Number of Bikes a Bike Sharing Company Repairs
Ryan wong

#Abstract

Bike sharing companies constantly need to replenish damaged bikes and redistribute them to different stations; this could be done more efficiently with a prediction for the number of damaged bikes needing repair and distributions of users across each station. Existing work on bike sharing data is limited by the use of a linear regression model, which assumes that there is a linear relationship between the historical usage statistics and the future demand. In addition, prior work has not taken advantage of detailed data, such as number of users for each station. This paper uses deep neural networks to predict the future demand based on historical data, such as: temperature, humidity, air pressure, users per station, and average duration of each trip. We compared neural networks to linear-based techniques on the mean-square error between the target values and predicted values. Experiments show that a deep learning approach produced more useful and accurate predictions than linear-based techniques on both the future demand and future number of repairs. This suggests that the data does not have a linear relationship. We also examined the results of using detailed data over less detailed data. Experiments show that more detailed data improved prediction accuracy of the models. Lastly, we removed individual input features; results show that neural networks are significantly impacted due to the removal of features but not linear regression.
